# DFIP-2203

## Proposal

For the community discussion that led to the addition of this feature, please have a look at the [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/defiblockchain/comments/t63ppr/handling_dtoken_premium_with_futures/) post and hear the [Twitter Space](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1eaKbNRkzqkKX).

For the proposal, refer to this [link](https://github.com/DeFiCh/dfips/issues/127)

## DFIP summary :

- Introduce future trading for settling dToken prices once a week (7*2880 blocks).
- Establish 2 different Future contracts - one for the premium case and on for the discount case.
- Range for settlement should be +/-5%, which allows anticipating the next price in case of closed markets (constant oracle price)
- Premium future should trade 5% above the oracle price - you can buy dTokens with a 5% fee)
- Discount future should trade 5% below the oracle price - you can sell dTokens with a 5% discount)
- Futures will be a weak binding of DEX price to oracle price: between settlement time higher/lower deviations are possible
- Introducing an additional swap fee of 0.1% for every dToken pool to burn dTokens. The fee should be conducted for both swap
directions.
- Strengthen dUSD by counting them in the same way as the mandatory 50% DFI in vaults with fix price of $0.99.

## Related PRs:

- DEX fee [PR](https://github.com/DeFiCh/ain/pull/1153)
- DUSD as collateral [PR](https://github.com/DeFiCh/ain/pull/1128)
- Future swap contract [PR](https://github.com/DeFiCh/ain/pull/1155)

## Governances variables

### v0/params/dfip2203/active

This variable determines wether the DFIP is activated or not. When disabled, no more deposit to the smart contract address will be accepted nor any swap will be executed.

### v0/params/dfip2203/reward_pct

The percent of premium deducted at the moment of the swap.

### v0/params/dfip2203/period_blocks

The block interval between two future swaps.

### v0/token/<token_id>/dfip2203_disabled

Defaults to false. Used to blacklist certain token.

## RPC commands

### getfutureswapblock

Get the next block when the contract will be executed.

```
defi-cli getfutureswapblock
895100
```

### futureswap

#### Parameters :
- `address` : Address to fund contract and receive resulting token.
- `amount` : Amount to send in amount@token format.
- `destination` : Optional. Expected dToken if DUSD amount supplied.

Deposit DUSD or dTokens to be swapped at the next block interval.

```
defi-cli futureswap <address> <amount> <destination>
fd55837215c7ff29ba43afb196ffbfba8c20f16eb9dbba30ba829853f15b2aeb
```

### withdrawfutureswap

#### Parameters :
- `address` : Address to fund contract and receive resulting token.
- `amount` : Amount to send in amount@token format.
- `destination` : Optional. Expected dToken if DUSD amount supplied.

Withdraw DUSD or dTokens previously deposited.

```
defi-cli withdrawfutureswap <address> <amount> <destination>
bceb216add60c38888d102c737d73d3a559fc214bbe18cab92848a8d31586944
```

### listpendingfutureswaps

List all pending futures.

```
defi-cli listpendingfutureswaps
[{'owner': 'mg1qAZBb28tuWpxNmbRvZha9zhUpEQ5uVx', 'source': '1.00000000@MSFT', 'destination': 'DUSD'}, {'owner': 'mhe4v9VMpinWfJpgUqpmyEXeUXc1AdFoVC', 'source': '1.00000000@GOOGL', 'destination': 'DUSD'}, {'owner': 'mk5RKGj4nNiVPhKvrVqkUh7oX2oGXvtXc5', 'source': '1.00000000@TSLA', 'destination': 'DUSD'}, {'owner': 'msyMCXeC12XwzJ8CbZTbDyDAem3PsWFrRJ', 'source': '1.00000000@TWTR', 'destination': 'DUSD'}]
```

### getpendingfutureswaps

Get all pending futures for a specific address.

#### Parameters :
- `address` : Address to get futures prices for.

```
defi-cli getpendingfutureswaps <address>
{'owner': '<address>', 'values': [{'source': '1.00000000@MSFT', 'destination': 'DUSD'}]}
```

### listgovs

All the governance variables related to this DFIP can be accessed via `listgovs`

```
defi-cli listgovs
{
    ...,
    "ATTRIBUTES": {
    "v0/params/dfip2203/active": "true",
    "v0/params/dfip2203/reward_pct": "0.05",
    "v0/params/dfip2203/block_period": "20160",
    "v0/token/10/dfip2203_disabled":"true",
    }
}
